06-checks-and-assets.md, before:

# Checks and Assets

## Checks

Sensu checks are commands executed by the Sensu agent which monitor a condition
(e.g. is Nginx running?) or collect measurements (e.g. how much disk space do I
have left?). Although the Sensu agent will attempt to execute any command
defined for a check, successful processing of check results requires adherence
to a simple specification.

### Specification

- Result data is output to STDOUT or STDERR
    - For standard checks this output is typically a human-readable message
    - For metrics checks this output contains the measurements gathered by the check
- Exit status code indicates state
    - 0 indicates “OK”
    - 1 indicates “WARNING”
    - 2 indicates “CRITICAL”
    - exit status codes other than 0, 1, or 2 indicate an “UNKNOWN” or custom status

### Viewing

To view all the checks that are currently configured for the cluster, enter:

```sh
sensuctl check list
```

If you want more details on a check, the `info` subcommand can help you out.

> sensuctl check info my-cool-check
```sh
=== marketing-site
Name:           check-http
Interval:       10
Command:        check-http.rb -u https://dean-learner.book
Subscriptions:  web
Handlers:       slack
Runtime Assets: ruby42
Organization:   default
Environment:    default
```

### Management

Checks can be configured both interactively:

<img src="assets/sensuctl-check-create.gif" alt="create asset" width="500px" />

...or by using CLI flags.

```sh
sensuctl check create check-disk -c "./check-disk.sh" --handlers slack -i 5 --subscriptions unix
ensuctl check create check-nginx -c "./nginx-status.sh" --handlers pagerduty,slack -i 15 --subscriptions unix,www
```

To delete an existing check, simply pass the name of the check to the `delete`
command.

```sh
sensuctl check delete check-disk
```

**NOTE:** Due to Etcd performance limitations (see [FAQ](https://github.com/sensu/sensu-alpha-documentation/blob/master/97-FAQ.md "FAQ")) and general security features, the maximum http request body size is 512K bytes.

## Assets

Assets are a way to provide your checks with runtime dependencies they require
to execute. These can be anything from scripts (e.g. check-haproxy.sh) to
full runtimes (ruby, python, etc.) Most helpful in environments without a
configuration management system, where your systems, images, containers, might
not have everything required to run a execute a check.

At runtime the agent sequentially fetches assets and stores them in its local
cache. On subsequent check executions it checks for the presence of the asset in
its cache and ensures that the contents matches its checksum.

### Asset Structure

The agent expects that an asset is a TAR archive that may optionally be GZip'd.
Any scripts or executables should be within a `bin/` folder within in the
archive.

Further when the check is executed, the following are injected into the
execution context.

- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/bin` is injected into the `PATH` environment variable.
- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/lib` is injected into the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` environment variable.
- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/include` is injected into the `CPATH` environment variable.

### Storage

At this time the Sensu's backend does not provide any storage capabilities for
assets. The assets are expected to be retrieved over HTTP or HTTPS.

### Basics

To view all assets currently available in your configured Sensu instance. Run:

```sh
sensuctl asset list
```

If you want more in depth details on an asset, you can use the `info`
subcommand.

```sh
sensu asset info my-great-check-sh
```

Assets can be created both interactively..

<img src="assets/sensuctl-asset-create.gif" alt="create asset" width="500px" />

or by using CLI flags.

```sh
sensuctl asset create curl --url "https://acme.s3.amazonaws.com/curl-7.52.1.tar" --sha512 d940d3975051f7cb70c28bbf4b45cf4805b5113d44c96ed120e4a8a6206e55ed3fcdabb37158e3989d24267d9e185896e872ab7b10571edc90b62c0a20512346
```

### Filters

Filters are used to specify conditions in-which your asset should be installed
on an agent. For example you have a check that's assets have to differ for each
platform.

eg.

- You create an asset name `curl/linux`; the filter associated with this
  asset are System.OS=='linux'
- Next, you create an asset for freebsd named `curl/freebsd`; the filter would
  look like `System.OS=='freebsd'`
- Finally to associate the assets with a check, you can refer the group by its
  prefix. Eg. a check named `check-website` with assets `['curl'].`

### Sensu Query Language

**TODO**

### Managing Asset Filters

Creating a new asset with filters is as simple as:

```sh
sensuctl asset create curl/linux64 --url "http://acme.s3.amazonaws.com/curl-7-linux.tar" --sha512 XXX --filter "System.OS=='linux'" --filter "System.Arch == 'amd64'"
```
**NOTE:** At the moment there is no way to edit the filters associated with an
existing asset. However, you can re-create the asset with the same name and the
existing entity will be overwritten.

To create a new check associated with an asset, run:

```sh
sensuctl create check check-my-website --command "curl http://something" --runtime-asset ruby24,python31
```

Example using the assets prefix:

```sh
sensuctl asset create curl/linux --url "http://acme.s3.amazonaws.com/curl-7-linux.tar" --sha512 XXX --filter "System.OS=='linux'" --filter "System.Arch == 'amd64'"
sensuctl asset create curl/macos --url "http://acme.s3.amazonaws.com/curl-7-macos.tar" --sha512 XXX --filter "System.OS=='macos'" --filter "System.Arch == 'amd64'"
sensuctl create check check-my-website --command "curl http://something" --runtime-asset curl # by using prefix captures both assets
```

### Silencing

Silenced entries are used to supress event handler execution, effectively muting
notifications for an event. Check events can be silenced by subscription, check
name, or combination of the two. 

## Viewing

To view all current silenced entries, enter:

```sh
sensuctl silenced list
```

### Managing Silenced Entries

Create a silenced entry interactively:

> sensuctl silenced create
```sh
? Organization: default
? Environment: default
? Subscription: webserver
? Check: check-status
? Expiry in Seconds: 3600
? Expire on Resolve: No
? Reason: "rebooting the world"
```

Or with CLI flags:
```sh
sensuctl silenced create -e 3600 -c "check-status" -s "webserver" -r "rebooting the world"
```

You must provide either a check name or subscription name in order to create a 
silenced entry. If either value is not provided, it is substituted with a wildcard. 
To update, delete, or get more info on a silenced entry, you will need to provide 
the ID, which is the combination of the subscription name and the check name in 
the form `subscription:checkname`.

```sh
$ sensuctl silenced update webserver:check-status
? Expiry in Seconds: 1500
? Expire on Resolve: No
? Reason: rebooting the world
```

A silenced entry expiration time will default to -1, meaning the entry will persist 
in the store unless manually removed. Setting an expiry time will create a TTL
on the entry so that it is deleted when the TTL runs out. To remove an entry
manually, you must provide the silenced entry ID.

> sensuctl silenced delete webserver:check-status
```sh
Are you sure you would like to delete resource 'webserver:check-status'?

Enter 'WEBSERVER:CHECK-STATUS' to confirm.
> WEBSERVER:CHECK-STATUS
OK
```

Commit message:

Added note about check stdin and started page for agent documentation

06-checks-and-assets.md, after:

# Checks and Assets

## Checks

Sensu checks are commands executed by the Sensu agent which monitor a condition
(e.g. is Nginx running?) or collect measurements (e.g. how much disk space do I
have left?). Although the Sensu agent will attempt to execute any command
defined for a check, successful processing of check results requires adherence
to a simple specification.

### Specification

- Result data is output to STDOUT or STDERR
    - For standard checks this output is typically a human-readable message
    - For metrics checks this output contains the measurements gathered by the check
- Exit status code indicates state
    - 0 indicates “OK”
    - 1 indicates “WARNING”
    - 2 indicates “CRITICAL”
    - exit status codes other than 0, 1, or 2 indicate an “UNKNOWN” or custom status
### Viewing

To view all the checks that are currently configured for the cluster, enter:

```sh
sensuctl check list
```

If you want more details on a check, the `info` subcommand can help you out.

> sensuctl check info my-cool-check
```sh
=== marketing-site
Name:           check-http
Interval:       10
Command:        check-http.rb -u https://dean-learner.book
Subscriptions:  web
Handlers:       slack
Runtime Assets: ruby42
Publish?:       true
Stdin?:         true
Source:
Organization:   default
Environment:    default
```

### Management

Checks can be configured both interactively:

<img src="assets/sensuctl-check-create.gif" alt="create asset" width="500px" />

...or by using CLI flags.

```sh
sensuctl check create check-disk -c "./check-disk.sh" --handlers slack -i 5 --subscriptions unix
ensuctl check create check-nginx -c "./nginx-status.sh" --handlers pagerduty,slack -i 15 --subscriptions unix,www
```

To delete an existing check, simply pass the name of the check to the `delete`
command.

```sh
sensuctl check delete check-disk
```

**STDIN** - set this to true when creating a check interactively, or by passing
--stdin to tell the agent to pass the event to your check via STDIN at runtime. 

**NOTE:** Due to Etcd performance limitations (see [FAQ](https://github.com/sensu/sensu-alpha-documentation/blob/master/97-FAQ.md "FAQ")) and general security features, the maximum http request body size is 512K bytes.

## Assets

Assets are a way to provide your checks with runtime dependencies they require
to execute. These can be anything from scripts (e.g. check-haproxy.sh) to
full runtimes (ruby, python, etc.) Most helpful in environments without a
configuration management system, where your systems, images, containers, might
not have everything required to run a execute a check.

At runtime the agent sequentially fetches assets and stores them in its local
cache. On subsequent check executions it checks for the presence of the asset in
its cache and ensures that the contents matches its checksum.

### Asset Structure

The agent expects that an asset is a TAR archive that may optionally be GZip'd.
Any scripts or executables should be within a `bin/` folder within in the
archive.

Further when the check is executed, the following are injected into the
execution context.

- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/bin` is injected into the `PATH` environment variable.
- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/lib` is injected into the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` environment variable.
- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/include` is injected into the `CPATH` environment variable.

### Storage

At this time the Sensu's backend does not provide any storage capabilities for
assets. The assets are expected to be retrieved over HTTP or HTTPS.

### Basics

To view all assets currently available in your configured Sensu instance. Run:

```sh
sensuctl asset list
```

If you want more in depth details on an asset, you can use the `info`
subcommand.

```sh
sensu asset info my-great-check-sh
```

Assets can be created both interactively..

<img src="assets/sensuctl-asset-create.gif" alt="create asset" width="500px" />

or by using CLI flags.

```sh
sensuctl asset create curl --url "https://acme.s3.amazonaws.com/curl-7.52.1.tar" --sha512 d940d3975051f7cb70c28bbf4b45cf4805b5113d44c96ed120e4a8a6206e55ed3fcdabb37158e3989d24267d9e185896e872ab7b10571edc90b62c0a20512346
```

### Filters

Filters are used to specify conditions in-which your asset should be installed
on an agent. For example you have a check that's assets have to differ for each
platform.

eg.

- You create an asset name `curl/linux`; the filter associated with this
  asset are System.OS=='linux'
- Next, you create an asset for freebsd named `curl/freebsd`; the filter would
  look like `System.OS=='freebsd'`
- Finally to associate the assets with a check, you can refer the group by its
  prefix. Eg. a check named `check-website` with assets `['curl'].`

### Sensu Query Language

**TODO**

### Managing Asset Filters

Creating a new asset with filters is as simple as:

```sh
sensuctl asset create curl/linux64 --url "http://acme.s3.amazonaws.com/curl-7-linux.tar" --sha512 XXX --filter "System.OS=='linux'" --filter "System.Arch == 'amd64'"
```
**NOTE:** At the moment there is no way to edit the filters associated with an
existing asset. However, you can re-create the asset with the same name and the
existing entity will be overwritten.

To create a new check associated with an asset, run:

```sh
sensuctl create check check-my-website --command "curl http://something" --runtime-asset ruby24,python31
```

Example using the assets prefix:

```sh
sensuctl asset create curl/linux --url "http://acme.s3.amazonaws.com/curl-7-linux.tar" --sha512 XXX --filter "System.OS=='linux'" --filter "System.Arch == 'amd64'"
sensuctl asset create curl/macos --url "http://acme.s3.amazonaws.com/curl-7-macos.tar" --sha512 XXX --filter "System.OS=='macos'" --filter "System.Arch == 'amd64'"
sensuctl create check check-my-website --command "curl http://something" --runtime-asset curl # by using prefix captures both assets
```

### Silencing

Silenced entries are used to supress event handler execution, effectively muting
notifications for an event. Check events can be silenced by subscription, check
name, or combination of the two. 

## Viewing

To view all current silenced entries, enter:

```sh
sensuctl silenced list
```

### Managing Silenced Entries

Create a silenced entry interactively:

> sensuctl silenced create
```sh
? Organization: default
? Environment: default
? Subscription: webserver
? Check: check-status
? Expiry in Seconds: 3600
? Expire on Resolve: No
? Reason: "rebooting the world"
```

Or with CLI flags:
```sh
sensuctl silenced create -e 3600 -c "check-status" -s "webserver" -r "rebooting the world"
```

You must provide either a check name or subscription name in order to create a 
silenced entry. If either value is not provided, it is substituted with a wildcard. 
To update, delete, or get more info on a silenced entry, you will need to provide 
the ID, which is the combination of the subscription name and the check name in 
the form `subscription:checkname`.

```sh
$ sensuctl silenced update webserver:check-status
? Expiry in Seconds: 1500
? Expire on Resolve: No
? Reason: rebooting the world
```

A silenced entry expiration time will default to -1, meaning the entry will persist 
in the store unless manually removed. Setting an expiry time will create a TTL
on the entry so that it is deleted when the TTL runs out. To remove an entry
manually, you must provide the silenced entry ID.

> sensuctl silenced delete webserver:check-status
```sh
Are you sure you would like to delete resource 'webserver:check-status'?

Enter 'WEBSERVER:CHECK-STATUS' to confirm.
> WEBSERVER:CHECK-STATUS
OK
```
